Welcome to the next section of this course.
In this section will be taking a look at parallel execution.
On doing.
So we discover some issues with our current framework design.
And so in this section, we also look at ways to resolve those issues and how to improve our current
framework.
So what is Pabillo execution?
It means to run our tests in parallel, i.e. at the same time.
We would do this to run tests at a faster pace so we no longer have to wait until the first test finishes
before the next one starts executing.
We can achieve parallel execution by amending the test XML file.
We had some very simple configuration to our suite takes.
So on this slide, I provide you an example of an amended test simple file.
So you'll see properties where I've added parallel equals methods.
I'm afraid count equals two.
So parallel can equal methods and this will run all methods listed in the test in small file.
It can equal tests, but to run all tests listed in the test in g a XML file or it can equal classes
which will run all classes listed in the test in g sml file.
I also have a friend count and this property simply indicates the maximum number of methods test or
classes to run at the same time.
So what are the problems with our current design?
As will use in public static web driver.
Our tests become confused when we try to run more than one test at the same time.
This is because the test will fight for the same driver object.
We need to produce a way so to our tests understand to use our own driver object.
We are going to also use this opportunity to improve our overall framework design to really supercharge
in our page object model framework.
So let's see an example of the problem.
So before we add parallel execution, let's just confirm that our test run when we run it from the test
injection file.
So you can see that the first test has started executed.
And when that's finished, the second test starts.
So we know our tests run fine without any issues.
So I'm now going to open up the test, inject small file.
And I need to locate the sweet tag.
So the first property I'm going to add is parallel equals.
And I'm going to write tests in double quotes.
And then glance at the space.
Right, Fred.
Counts equals and in double quotes to.
So parallel equals tests means that I want these tests to run.
And Frank count equals two means that I only want to test two run at the same time.
So if you imagine that I had more than two tests in this file.
Two test will still only run based on this set in.
So if I save my tests, inject small file and try running again.
Let's see what happens.
So you can see two Chrome browsers opened.
One test is running and this second one is blank.
And if I look at clips, you'll see that there's an error here.
And if I scroll up, it's also complaining about the base page.
Take snapshot method.
Same as a no pointer exception.
If we look at the summary here, we can see two tests of run, but both of them have failed and there's
also a configuration failure.
So we know that when we run our tests in parallel, there are issues that we need to fix.
So this section is going to focus on fixing those issues and to improve our overall framework design.
Thank you for watching.